anerdyplace/content/blogs/bmw-e87-turbo-removal.md, before:

---
title: "Bmw E87 Turbo Removal"
date: 2022-09-08T22:43:29+02:00
draft: true
image:
thumbnail:
socialShare: false
---

## How it came to this
3 weeks ago the turbo in my car broke.
To save money, I got a revised one on eBay.
After a week of delivery and 2 days in the workshop, the elation of success was immediately followed by great disillusionment.
As soon as I turned on the ignition, a strange humming sound came from the engine compartment.
A short test drive confirmed the suspicion: The boost control does not work.

In order to have a warranty claim, it had to be proven that the turbocharger was faulty and that there was no damage to the vehicle.
The troubleshooting began.

- Oil was changed during turbo replacement
- New oil and air filter was installed
- DPF was cleaned
- Voltage supply was checked
- Signal at boost pressure regulator was checked
- The error memory was read and the static error code 44CC was found: Boost pressure controller defective

The reading of the actuator signal was the trickiest part.
A test wire was inserted into pin 4 of the turbocharger connector and measured against ground using an oscilloscope.

![image of connector plug](/images/blogs/bmw-e87-turbo-removal/image14.jpg "The booster signal")

Commit message:

Huge Update.
Added posts, images, html and js files. Added full text search and layout changes.

anerdyplace/content/blogs/bmw-e87-turbo-removal.md, after:

---
title: "Bmw E87 Turbo Removal"
date: 2022-09-08T22:43:29+02:00
draft: true
socialShare: false
thumbnail: /images/blogs/bmw-e87-turbo-removal/thumb.webp
---

## How it came to this
3 weeks ago the turbo in my car broke.
To save money, I got a revised one on eBay.
After a week of delivery and 2 days in the workshop, the elation of success was immediately followed by great disillusionment.
As soon as I turned on the ignition, a strange humming sound came from the engine compartment.
On further investigation, the suspicion was confirmed: The boost control does not work.

I had to find out if the turbo charger was faulty, or my car.

The troubleshooting began:

- Oil was changed during turbo replacement
- New oil and air filter was installed
- DPF was cleaned
- Voltage supply was checked
- Signal at boost pressure regulator was checked
- The error memory was read and the static error code 44CC was found: Boost pressure controller defective

## Reading the controller signal

The reading of the actuator signal was the trickiest part.
A test wire was inserted into pin 4 of the turbocharger connector and measured against ground using an oscilloscope.

![image of connector plug](/images/blogs/bmw-e87-turbo-removal/image14.webp "The booster signal")

The signal corresponded to the given values from the diganosis manual.

## Removing the turbo

In my experience, the easiest way to do this is to loosen the bottom screws first.
The best way to do this is to jack up the car or drive onto a ramp or lifting platform and remove the underbody cover first.

Loosen the hose clamps of the turbo oil outlet.
![image of oil hose](/images/blogs/bmw-e87-turbo-removal/image1.webp "Oil outlet hose clamps")

Remove the bottom screw of the turbo.
![image of bottom screw](/images/blogs/bmw-e87-turbo-removal/image2.webp "The bottom screw")

Fully open the clamp between the turbo and the catalytic converter.
This tends to be tight and can be loosened with a long screwdriver either from below, or from above through the air filter chamber.
![image of the clamp](/images/blogs/bmw-e87-turbo-removal/image3.webp "The clamp screw")
